# Data Modeling with Apache Cassandra

## Project Overview
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analysis team is particularly 
interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, there is no easy way to query the data to generate the results, since the data reside in a directory 
of CSV files on user activity on the app.

They'd like a data engineer to create an Apache Cassandra database which can create queries on song play data to answer the questions, and wish to bring me on the project. 
My role is to create a database for this analysis. I'll be able to test my database by running queries given to me by the analytics team from Sparkify to create the results.

### Environment

This project requires **Python 3.8** and the following Python libraries installed:

- [psycopg2](https://pypi.org/project/psycopg2/)
- [configparser](https://pypi.org/project/configparser/)

### Index

1. `cassandra.ipynb`: Jupyter NB containing entire project and report.
2. `event_data`: Folder containing `Song data` and `Log data` in JSON format


### Data

The source data is in files in the `event_data` folder.

* Song data: `event_data/song_data`
* Log data: `event_data/log_data`
    
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON 
format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned 
by the first three letters of each song's track ID. 

Log files contains songplay events of the users in json format 
while song_data contains list of songs details.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based 
on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music 
streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset are partitioned by 
year and month.

