# Building a Cloud Data Warehouse - using AWS and Redshift

## Project Overview
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app. 

In this project, we are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

### Environment

This project requires **Python 3.8** and the following Python libraries installed:

- [psycopg2](https://pypi.org/project/psycopg2/)
- [configparser](https://pypi.org/project/configparser/)

### Index

1. `etl.py`: Python script that loads data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then processes that data into analytics tables on Redshift.
2. `sql_queries.py`: Python file where all SQL statements are defined for dropping, creating, and inserting into, tables.
3. `create_tables.py`: Pyhton script that creates the fact and dimension tables in Redshift.
4. `dwh.cfg`: Redshift cluster, IAM, and S3 information (kept private)

### Data

The source data is in log files given the Amazon S3 bucket.

* Song data: `s3://udacity-dend/song_data`
* Log data: `s3://udacity-dend/log_data`
* Log data json path: `s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json`
    
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON 
format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned 
by the first three letters of each song's track ID. 

Log files contains songplay events of the users in json format 
while song_data contains list of songs details.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based 
on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music 
streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset are partitioned by 
year and month.

### Instructions to Run

* Update the `dwh.cfg` file
    * Amazon Redshift cluster credentials
    * IAM role
* Run `python create_tables.py`. 
    * This will create the database and all the required tables.
* Run `python etl.py`. 
    * This will start pipeline which will read the data from files and populate the tables.
