# Building a Data Lake - using Spark and AWS

## Project Overview
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app. 

In this project, we are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

### Environment

This project requires **Python 3.8** and the following Python libraries installed:

- [pyspark](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/index.html)
- [configparser](https://pypi.org/project/configparser/)
- [os](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html)

### Index

1. `etl.py`: Python script that reads data from S3, processes it using Spark, and writes it back.
2. `dl.cfg`: AWS credentials information (kept private).

### Data

The source data is in log files given the Amazon S3 bucket.

* Song data: `s3://udacity-dend/song_data`
* Log data: `s3://udacity-dend/log_data`
* Log data json path: `s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json`

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON
format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned
by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

Log files contains songplay events of the users in json format
while song_data contains list of songs details.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based
on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music
streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset are partitioned by
year and month.

### Spark Process

The ETL job processes the `song files` then the `log files`. The `song files` are listed and iterated over entering relevant information in the artists and the song folders in parquet. The `log files` are filtered by the *NextSong* action. The subsequent dataset is then processed to extract the date, time, year etc. fields and records are then appropriately entered into the `time`, `users` and `songplays` folders in parquet for analysis.

### Instructions to Run

* Update the `dl.cfg` file
    * AWS credentials
* Run `python etl.py`
    * This will start pipeline
