# Data Modeling with PostgreSQL

## Project Overview
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring me on the project. My role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. I'll be able to test my database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to me by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare my results with their expected results.

### Environment

This project requires **Python 3.8** and the following Python libraries installed:

- [psycopg2](https://pypi.org/project/psycopg2/)
- [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/)

### Index

1. `etl.py`: Python script that loads data from JSON then creates and populates all tables.
2. `sql_queries.py`: Python file where all SQL statements are defined for dropping, creating, and inserting into, tables.
3. `create_tables.py`: Pyhton script that creates the fact and dimension tables in Redshift.

### Data

The source data is in log files given the Amazon S3 bucket.

* Song data: `s3://udacity-dend/song_data`
* Log data: `s3://udacity-dend/log_data`
* Log data json path: `s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json`
    
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON 
format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned 
by the first three letters of each song's track ID. 

Log files contains songplay events of the users in json format 
while song_data contains list of songs details.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based 
on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music 
streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset are partitioned by 
year and month.

### Instructions to Run

* Run `python create_tables.py`. 
    * This will create the database and all the required tables.
* Run `python etl.py`. 
    * This will start pipeline which will read the data from files and populate the tables.
